# Azure-Container-Instance
Azure Container Instances provides the compute environment for the container image.

Task 1: Deploy an Azure Container Instance using a Docker image
In this task, you will create a simple web application using a Docker image. Docker is a platform that provides the ability to package and run applications in isolated environments called containers. Azure Container Instances provides the compute environment for the container image.
Sign in to the Azure portal - https://portal.azure.com.
In the Azure portal, search for and select Container instances and then, on the Container instances blade, click + Create.
On the Basics tab of the Create container instance blade, specify the following settings (leave others with their default values):
Setting
Value
Subscription
Select your Azure subscription
Resource group
az104-rg9 (If necessary, select Create new)
Container name
az104-c1
Region
East US (or a region available near you)
Image Source
Quickstart images
Image
mcr.microsoft.com/azuredocs/aci-helloworld:latest (Linux)


Click Next: Networking > and specify the following settings (leave others with their default values):
Setting
Value
DNS name label
any valid, globally unique DNS host name

Note: Your container will be publicly reachable at dns-name-label.region.azurecontainer.io. If you receive a DNS name label not available error message, specify a different value.
Click Next: Monitoring > and uncheck Enable container instance logs.
Click Next: Advanced >, review the settings without making any changes.
Click Review + Create, ensure that the validation passed and then select Create.
Note: Wait for the deployment to complete. This should take 2-3 minutes.
Note: While you wait, you may be interested in viewing the code behind the sample application. To view the code, browse the \app folder.
Task 2: Test and verify deployment of an Azure Container Instance
In this task, you review the deployment of the container instance. By default, the Azure Container Instance is accessible over port 80. After the instance has been deployed, you can navigate to the container using the DNS name that you provided in the previous task.
On the deployment blade, click the Go to resource link.
On the Overview blade of the container instance, verify that Status is reported as Running.
Copy the value of the container instance FQDN, open a new browser tab, and navigate to the corresponding URL.

Verify that the Welcome to Azure Container Instance page is displayed. Refresh the page several times to create some log entries then close the browser tab.
In the Settings section of the container instance blade, click Containers, and then click Logs.
Verify that you see the log entries representing the HTTP GET request generated by displaying the application in the browser.
Cleanup your resources
If you are working with your own subscription take a minute to delete the lab resources. This will ensure resources are freed up and cost is minimized. The easiest way to delete the lab resources is to delete the lab resource group.
In the Azure portal, select the resource group, select Delete the resource group, Enter resource group name, and then click Delete.
Using Azure PowerShell, Remove-AzResourceGroup -Name resourceGroupName.
Using the CLI, az group delete --name resourceGroupName.
Extend your learning with Copilot
Copilot can assist you in learning how to use the Azure scripting tools. Copilot can also assist in areas not covered in the lab or where you need more information. Open an Edge browser and choose Copilot (top right) or navigate to copilot.microsoft.com. Take a few minutes to try these prompts.
Summarize the steps to create and configure an Azure Container Instance.
What are the ways I can run a serverless container on Azure?
Learn more with self-paced training
Run container images in Azure Container Instances. Learn how Azure Container Instances can help you quickly deploy containers, how to set environment variables, and specify container restart policies.
Key takeaways
Congratulations on completing the lab. Here are the main takeaways for this lab.
Azure Container Instances (ACI) is a service that enables you to deploy containers on the Microsoft Azure public cloud.
ACI doesn’t require you to provision or manage any underlying infrastructure.
ACI supports both Linux containers and Windows containers.
Workloads on ACI are usually started and stopped by some kind of process or trigger and are usually short-lived.
